Task is to develop a traffic light controller system to a intersection where a side street is crossing a main
street. Both streets have usual traffic lights for vehicles and pedestrians.
All the walk request buttons are attached to the controller using a wired OR. There are two sensors on the
side street to detect vehicles that are passing over them. (Assumption: Sensor remains high constantly when
several cars pass over it).
The Traffic light controller is timed based on three parameters (in seconds) tBASE, tEXT, tYEL. These
parameters can be changed using operation. Default values are as follows.
Interval Name	    Symbol Parameter  Number 	 Default Time (sec)  Time Value
Base Interval	 	tBASE 		00 		6 		0110
Extended Interval	tEXT 		01 		3 		0011
Yellow Interval 	tYEL 		10 		2 		0010
The operating sequence of this intersection begins with the Main Street having a green light for 2 lengths
of tBASE seconds. Next, the Main lights turn to yellow for tYEL and then turn red while simultaneously turning
on the Side Street green light. The Side Street is green for tBASE, and its yellow is held for tYEL. Whenever a
stoplight is green or yellow, the other street's stoplight is red. Under normal circumstances, this cycle repeats
continuously.
There are two ways the controller can deviate from the typical loop. First, a walk button allows pedestrians
to submit a walk request. The internal Walk Register will set on a button press and the controller will service the request after the Main Street yellow light by turning all streetlights to red and the walk light to on. After
a walk of tEXT seconds, the traffic lights will return to their usual routine by turning the Side Street green.
The Walk Register will be cleared at the end of a walk cycle.
The second deviation is the traffic sensor. If the traffic sensor is high at the end of the first tBASE length of
the Main street green, the light will remain green only for an additional tEXT second, rather than the full
tBASE. Additionally, if the traffic sensor is high during the end of the Side Street green, it will remain green
for an additional tEXT second.

Top Module (TrafficControllerMain)
States represented by decimal values
Decimal value State Binary value
24            A     0011000
40            B     0101000
66            C     1000010
68            D     1000100
73            E     1001001

Synchronizer
Module description
On the block diagram, you see that all input signals pass through the synchronizer before going to
other blocks. The purpose of the synchronizer is to ensure that the inputs are synchronized to the
system clock

Walk Register
Module description
The Walk Register allows pedestrians to set a walk request at any time. There is also a signal
controlled by the finite state machine that will be able to reset the register at the end of the actual
walk cycle.

Time Parameters
Module description
The time parameters module stores the three different time parameter values, namely tBASE, tEXT,
and tYEL on the FPGA. The module acts like a (small) memory from the FSM and Timer blocks,
where the FSM addresses the three parameters and the timer reads the data. From the user's
perspective, the three time parameter values can be modified. On a reset, the three parameters
should be respectively set to 6, 3 and 2 seconds. However, at any time, the user may modify any of
the values by manipulating Time_Parameter_Selector, Time_Value, and Reprogram. Each of these
values are 4 bits, and is selected using a 2 bit address. Whenever a parameter is reprogrammed, the
FSM should be reset to its starting state.
Interval value is assigned for tBASE, tEXT and tYEL as follows.
Interval Symbol Default Time (sec)
00        tBASE    6
01        tEXT     3
10        tYEL     2
11        2*tBASE  2*tBASE
Table 3 Interval values
Times resets when the selector input is 00. Otherwise the values on the time_value input are
assigned to the tBASE, tEXTand tYEL respectively. Since register stores the values, selected values will be saved
untill selector becomes 00 (Reset).

Divider
Module description
The divider is necessary for the timer to properly time the number of seconds for any traffic light
state. Using only the clock as input, this module generates a 1 Hz enable, which is sent to the timer.
The signal generated is a pulse that is high for one clock cycle every 1sec.
Test bench output
1Hz enable requires 106 clock cycles at 100MHz. Since it is output cannot be visualized clearly
10MHz pulses were generated instead of 1Hz pulses.

Timer
Module description
The timer is responsible for taking the start_timer, 1Hz enable, and Time Parameter value to
properly time the traffic light controller. When done counting a particular state, the expired signal
will go high for one clock period to signal to the FSM that it should change states.
Since the value change is behind the start_timer by a one clock cycle this is solved by assigning
value to the time_left after a one clock cycle. This way it does not change the time values.

Finite State Machine
Module description
The finite state machine controls the sequencing for the traffic light. As previously described, it
changes states based on the Walk Register and sensor signals, and with the expired signal.
At the start of the system, FSM directly enter the State A for a time of 2* tBASE without considering
about any other sensor inputs. This occurs when the system is reset.
12
LEDs values represent the Following states of the system
Bits of the LEDs represent lights in following manner
LED sequence: [ Redmain, Yellowmain, Greenmain, Redside, Yellowside, Greenside, Walk]
State Representation Meaning
A     0011000        Main green
B     0101000        Main yellow
C     1000010        Side green
D     1000100        Side yellow
E     1001001        walk
Interval values represent following timer values
Representation Timer value
00             tBASE
01             tEXT
10             tYEL
11             2*tBASE