Description

Functionally, the buttons are used to start or stop a pulse generator. The pulse generator module generates pulses depending on the mode settings. Think of each pulse as a proxy of a step as you walk or run or exercise. The FitBit tracker module counts the pulses (i.e. counts the steps) and performs some other measurement based on that count. The Binary-to-BCD module converts the outputs of the tracker into BCD format. The rotation module rotates the value to be shown on the 7-segment display every 2 seconds. The BCD-to-7-segment module displays the step count (and other information) onto the 7-segment display, which is a proxy of the LCD display on a FitBit watch. 

Pulse generator:
The inputs for this module are: MODE, START, STOP, the system clock, and reset. The output is a signal that will have pulses in it.

We use a pulse generator to model the steps. The pulse generator will generate a sequence of pulses fed to the Fitbit tracker module. The generator should not be affected by the tracker nor affect the tracker, it is a stand-alone module from tracker. Each pulse generated by the pulse generator would only last one clock cycle (of the fast 100MHz clock). The generator will start generating the pulses when the input START is pulsed. When the STOP input is pulsed, the generator should stop generating pulses. It should start afresh when the START is pulsed again. The generator should have 4 modes:

1.	Walk mode (MODE = 2’b00): Output a sequence of pulses at a rate of 3125 clocks per pulse.
2.	Jog mode (MODE = 2’b01): Output a sequence of pulses at the rate of 1562 clocks per pulse.
3.	Run mode (MODE = 2’b10): Output a sequence of pulses at the rate of 718 clocks per pulse.
4.	Off mode (MODE = 2’b11): No pulses shall be generated. 
Fitbit Tracker:
The  inputs for this module are: a signal that has a sequence of pulses denoting steps, the system clock, and reset. The following are the outputs of this module:

1.	Total step count: The total number of steps or pulses being counted. Since the 7-segment can only display up to 9999, your circuit should saturate (stay) at 9999 and would assert the signal OFLOW to 1 as soon as the step count becomes more than 9999, indicating that the step count value being displayed is inaccurate and is more than 9999. Whenever reset is asserted, the step count will be set to 0000 and OFLOW will go low if it was previously high. The reset shall be active high and synchronous. 

2.	Distance covered: The displayed value of distance covered should be as per the following criterion: 2048 pulses or steps will constitute half a mile for distance calculation assuming the size of the steps to be fixed at an average value. To make calculation simpler, we only display the distance in denominations of 0.5 miles i.e., 0.5 miles, 1.0 miles, 1.5 miles and so on, going up to 9.5 miles. This is achieved by rounding down the actual distance covered to the nearest multiple of 0.5, so that the following are the display values for the total distance covered. 

[0000, 2048 steps) -> [0.0,0.5 miles) -> Display 0.0	
[2048, 4096 steps) -> [0.5,1.0 miles) -> Display 0.5	
[4096, 6144 steps) -> [1.0,1.5 miles) -> Display 1.0 and so on, going up to 9.5 miles
(Note: miles calculations above 9999 steps should still work)

Binary to BCD converter:

The step count and distance outputs of the FitBit tracker module will be binary values. These binary numbers will need to be converted to BCD, before being fed to the BCD to 7-segment decoder. This can be done using the “double dabble” (also known as “shift and add 3”) algorithm, which can be implemented using a finite state machine. The steps are described below:
1.	Shift the binary number left one bit. Exit if the binary number is empty after shift.
2.	If the binary value in any of the BCD columns is 5 or greater, add 3 to that value in that BCD column.
3.	Go to step 1

Rotation Module:
Information from the Fitbit tracker module should be displayed on the 7-segment display in a rotating fashion with a period of 2 seconds. The display should follow the following sequence: Total step count, Total distance, Mode, Total step count, Total distance, ... and so on, with each piece of information being displayed for 2 seconds.

For the function “Total step count”, the display should saturate at 9999. However, the step count should still be increasing for the “Distance covered” calculation. For the function “Distance covered”, use the DP cathode to display the decimal point.

This module receives many values from the binary-to-BCD converter (distance, mode, step count) and then time multiplexes them so that the output of this module only has one of these values at a time.

4-Digit 7-segment Display Driver:
To display information on the 7-segment displays on the board, you will need to design and implement a driver. A 1-digit BCD to 1-digit 7-segment display driver is provided in the lecture slides. In order to display four digits, you will need to switch between all four digits at approximately 1 kHz. Outputs that need to be refreshed include the cathodes (what digit to display) and anodes (which 7-segment to display it in).

